
.. _sec_release_notes:

Release notes
#############

Releases of documentation and code are using the same version numbers.

.. note::

  The version numbering system (tries and) follows the `semantic versioning
  <https://semver.org/>`_ principles; given a version number
  ``MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH``, increment the:

    1. ``MAJOR`` version when you make incompatible API changes
    2. ``MINOR`` version when you add functionality in a backward compatible manner
    3. ``PATCH`` version when you make backward compatible bug fixes


1.5.0 - Ongoing
***************

* Added ``use_timing`` option to :ref:`CLI wizard script configuration file
  <sec_vsl_wizard>`
* Verilator integration extension: added support for clock signals

  * New C++ Verilator integration API method
    :cpp:func:`vsl::VslInteg::register_clock`
  * Extended configuration file for the :ref:`CLI wizard script
    <sec_vsl_wizard>` to support clock variables
  * Extended TCP protocol :ref:`set <sec_tcp_cmd_set>` command with (optional)
    `sel` field in order to support clock enabling/disabling and configuration
  * New Python client method :py:meth:`Verisocks.enable_clock()
    <verisocks.verisocks.Verisocks.enable_clock>`
  * New Python client method :py:meth:`Verisocks.disable_clock()
    <verisocks.verisocks.Verisocks.disable_clock>`
  * New Python client method :py:meth:`Verisocks.configure_clock()
    <verisocks.verisocks.Verisocks.configure_clock>`

1.4.0 - 2025-08-22
******************

* Updated generated Makefile generated by :ref:`CLI wizard script
  <sec_vsl_wizard>` to include the configuration YAML file as dependency for
  the generated files (including the Makefile itself)
* Added ``--*-only`` options to :ref:`CLI wizard script <sec_vsl_wizard>` to
  generate only part of the target files
* Added ``log_level`` option to :ref:`CLI wizard script configuration file
  <sec_vsl_wizard>`
* Fixed ``variables`` as being possibly left out from the :ref:`CLI wizard
  script configuration file<sec_vsl_wizard>`
* Verilator extension tested with versions 5.036 and 5.038
* [`Issue #11 <https://github.com/jchabloz/verisocks/issues/11>`_] Added
  optional UUID field to :ref:`TCP protocol messages header
  <sec_tcp_frame_format>` for improved traceability. The reference Python
  client has also been updated to add the `use_uuid` option.

1.3.0 - 2025-04-19
******************

* Added an :ref:`API <sec_vsl_api>` to support integrating Verisocks with
  Verilator, including full documentation
* Included a :ref:`CLI wizard script <sec_vsl_wizard>` to Python package in
  order to facilitate the creation of top-level ``C++`` code to use Verisocks
  with Verilated code
* Modified the command :ref:`get(sim_info) <sec_tcp_cmd_get>` to return
  ``time_unit`` and ``time_precision`` information

1.2.0 - 2024-03-16
******************

* Modified :py:class:`Verisocks<verisocks.verisocks.Verisocks>` constructor and
  :py:meth:`Verisocks.connect() <verisocks.verisocks.Verisocks.connect>` method
  to include arguments for multiple, delayed connection trials. Examples and
  test have been simplified accordingly.
* Added correct management of system call interrupts while waiting on client
  connection in the server code (see
  https://www.gnu.org/software/libc/manual/html_node/Interrupted-Primitives.html
  for details).
* Added section :ref:`sec_alternative_simulators`.
* Added method :py:meth:`verisocks.utils.setup_sim_run` to simplify foreseen
  support for alternative simulators.

1.1.0 - 2024-02-07
******************

* Added :py:mod:`verisocks.utils` Python utilitary functions, including
  documentation.
* Added :py:meth:`Verisocks.info() <verisocks.verisocks.Verisocks.info>` method
  as a shortcut to implement the TCP protocol :keyword:`info
  <sec_tcp_cmd_info>` command.
* Corrected *SPI master* example for standalone execution.
* Added a minimalistic *Hello world* example, working both for standalone
  execution or with pytest.


1.0.0 - 2024-01-04
******************

* First released, working version
